e
hello everyone this is Brennan here from
b.net and in this tutorial we're going
to be making an advanced audio
visualizer and um I'm really sorry for
not having this tutorial out
sooner um but anyway let's get to
talking about this
tutorial so this tutorial was requested
by sanj Pandit he wanted me to make a
tutorial on how to make basically a more
advanced audio
visualizer so as you can see here this
is my example of a more advanced audio
visualizer he also asked if I can make
cubes bouncing on top of other cubes
that are moving vertically
and I added this cube in just as a side
thing just to uh add
extra an
extra
bar
so as you can see both of the cubes he
asked if I can make two different cubes
or just cubes bouncing on top of other
cubes just like this this is what I I
imagine he meant and um I
hope I hope this is what you meant or
what he meant if you're watching this
tutorial
so we're going to make this let's start
by creating all of these cubes let's go
and jump into
blender okay so here we are in blunder
this is version
2.68 and I just went into front view
right there or you can
press numpad one on the keyboard and you
press five to go in orthographic view so
it says front Ortho so now we're in
front view let's go ahead and duplicate
this cube move it to the
left and let's turn on snapping vertex
snapping let's press
GX hold down control hover your cursor
over the corner or the verticy of this
Cube which is right there and now it
snaps it right up against this cube in
the middle and let's go ahead and
duplicate this Cube again move it all
the way to the
right GX on the keyboard hold down
control and there it is right up against
the cube now let's go ahead and change
these colors of these cubes start with
this one on the very
left let's change this name to
Yellow
to
yellow and let's make each one its own
individual material and the way we do
that is just by clicking this number
right here it's number three there we go
now it has its own name its own
name
green let's change it to
green neon Type
green uh let's change this to Blue this
looks kind of like a must yellow make it
a little bit lighter change this make
this its own material and let's change
this to Blue so this will be blue this
will be green and this will be yellow
and let's go ahead and name these cubes
this will be
yellow this will be
green and this will be
blue all right now let us add another
Cube let's add two cubes duplicate
this let's scale these cubes
down about that
small it's probably
about let's just say duplicate this alt
S and S
S5 wait s
.5 so maybe about
s.2 maybe three blender units so s Nega
S3 about three blender units down scale
it about that that small should be
good and let's go into front view no
actually we don't need to Let's create a
material for these two this will be
orange
orange this will be
gray
gray gray
spelled
right orange and
gray let's change this to Orange it's
good orange color it's actually darker
than the one in the tutorial I think but
that's all
right uh let's change this to
gray all right now let's set the origin
points to all of these cubes right here
and we won't really need to mess with
the Origins on these so let's begin by
selecting this
Cube selecting the top of this Cube
select cursor to selected and control
shift alt C on the keyboard it's a lot
of buttons but control shift alt C
origin to 3D cursor that's what we want
to select it'll set the origin to the
top of this Cube now let's move this
Cube all the way down
let's press gz on the keyboard hold down
control to snap to this
vertex and now it's just like in the
tutorial animation or the video intro
that I made uh preview
actually this will now scale downwards
this we want to scale upwards so we'll
set the origin point to the bottom of
the
cube uh select the bottom actually have
face select mode selected so Rotex Edge
and I have face selected so let's uh do
shift s cursor 2 selected again go back
into object mode control shift alt C
origin to 3D cursor so I set the origin
to 3D
cursor now we would like this origin to
come we' like this Cube to
scale uh
horizontally so let's go into edit mode
select this to see through this Cube
select the face that we
want shift s cursor to selected control
shift alt C origin to 3D cursor now I
will scale horizontally to the
right and that's perfect that's just
what we want so now we have all of them
scaling the right
directions and let's begin by moving
this Cube
down and
actually snapping It To The Top
or actually now it would be the bottom
of this Cube basically because the top
is going up and the bottom is staying
down but it's upside down it's almost
like it
is otherwise it would be like this one
the top is going up and bottom staying
where it's supposed to be so let's
select this
Cube and in the tutorial in the original
file
I set this to I added added a floor
constraint so I'm going to add the floor
constraint and this is called yellow so
we would like to we would like the
target to be yellow because the floor
will be the yellow Cube so there we go
it stays on the floor like it's supposed
to only thing is that it doesn't stay on
well actually it does but we want it to
stay in the same position so we'll
select sticky and use rotation so now it
won't go anywhere after it touches it
stay in the same position actually don't
need this because it's not a rigid body
as this will be a rigid
body so now this will be going up and
down and scaling at the same
time so let's set this let's go to
animation let's click on
I
location Z location it will be moving on
the Z location z- axis on location and
let's go ahead and select our music
bake sound F
curves and always make sure you're at
the very first frame of the animation
otherwise if you're over here it won't
start till 100 frame
170 and mine was at zero so it will
start from the beginning start to
animate whoops start to animate from the
very
beginning so as you can see it's
starting to animate starting to Jump by
itself and it actually should be
parented to this Cube so let's go ahead
and do that select this Cube and select
the yellow
Cube contrl p on the keyboard select
object so now it'll parent itself to
this object so the parent is now the
yellow cube move this down actually move
back because I set the key frame to
that probably just set this to that
location it doesn't work so we will have
have to go into edit
mode and move it
up move this
Cube against that
one and move it down to right there set
the
cursor and it moves back so we might
have to move this by
itself and then
set the origin somewhere like
there
and now we will set the scaling of this
one this object let's go ahead and
select key or actually first we have to
set
scaling
select the Z scale we wanted to scale on
the z-axis downwards so we click on key
bake sound to F curves bake our music
bake it to the sound or music and now it
will animate with a cube bouncing on top
of it sometimes there are problems this
is obviously having a
problem
and I can just do is scale this
up but that's the basic idea just to get
this Cube jumping on top of the
other so there we go it jumps on top of
the other
Cube that's just what we
want it's
pretty there we go starting to jump
that's perfect so the origin should be
set somewhere up
high because it's parented and
everything has to do with that
so excuse me let's select this orange
Cube and let's go to the rigid the
uh physics
tab let's select rigid
body this will be a rigid body active it
be the type will be active and we'll
select Dynamic mass will stay at one
let's change this to a
capsule change the rotation to
zero transl ation will stay at
0.040
0.04
and that's it for
this if you press alt a on your keyboard
it should animate it should drop to the
ground if not something is
wrong there we go you have to start from
the very beginning and to set the length
of this animation you want to go to the
uh
scene
Tab and set the rigid body cache to
longer so if you want to do 400 frames
let's set this to
400 and we will bake this free all bakes
click on bake all Dynamics now it's
baked the whole animation and it falls
to the ground through this Cube that's
not what we want we want this
to bounce on top of this there's like a
normal Cube
should so or at least in this case we
want it to bounce this Cube kind of
jumps and size and
scales which and this one will just be
we just want it to bounce or jump kind
of high it goes up to about there
somewhere so let's go ahead and add a
limit location and a limit
rotation let's select minimum and
maximum on all of these as well as all
of these limit uh these different AES
AES we do not want it to rotate so we
added a limit rotation constraint it
constrains this Cube uh doesn't let it
move anywhere else doesn't let it rotate
that's not what we want at all because
it would rotate and fall off the cube we
want it to stay on
top so so let's
set this minimum y to two and
two that doesn't work so I think it
would be 0.1 and
0.1 yes that's right minimum X we just
leave it
zero and CU we don't want it moving
anywhere else minimum Z we want to set
to
6.7 actually Z I think it was maximum Z
6.7 that's
right there we
go and the minimum will just be left at
zero this the setting for this will be
we'll go to the physics tab make this a
rigid body but it will be passive so and
it will we'll select animated because
it's animated and it's going to be
passive because it's uh
it's not going to be a rigid body we
don't want it to be so this should
work actually have to bake this again I
think free all bakes bake all
Dynamics and yes it works it actually
goes through which we do not
want that might
be let me do free all bakes
yes that's because of the origin point
and where it
is so we will set this
to
box see how that works doesn't work too
well let's just leave it convex hole
okay that
works let's leave it there
and we want to animate this this needs
to be moving so let's go ahead and
select I
scaling let's select key bake sound to F
curves let's select our music bake sound
F
curves and whoops I did the wrong thing
wasn't supposed to bake it to all of
these supposed to only bake it to the Z
scale so I'm going to select only zscale
or I can select it down here key B sound
F curves and select our music B sound F
curves now it should
animate yes it's animating and it's
making the cube
bounce and actually it is supposed to be
moving more than
that let's see minimum
Z
zero so the m z is
about7 I
think negative.
7 something like
that
7.7 yes that's right so now it will
bounce whenever this Cube moves so
that's perfect that's just what we want
let's go ahead and add the music in here
oops this U editing and
scripting let's go add in not a image a
sound let's add in this sound and it's
perfectly flush against the first frame
which is just what we want and
now there we
go and we need to do this right here
which is optional you don't have to do
this but this is just what I did so I'm
going to select scaling press I
scaling select the xaxis because it's
scaling on the
x-axis and let's select key bake sound
to F
curves select the music there we go now
it should all
animate yes it all
animates everything's working as it
should so that that's how you make an
more advanced audio
visualizer thank you so much for
watching and just comment like
subscribe and I hope to see you again
thanks for watching my videos